[Applause]
we are here on this night because of the
gracious support of dr. Gus taglio fairy
who endowed this distinguished lecture
series in the name of his dear late wife
Patricia Gus experienced a terrible fall
several weeks ago and in visiting him in
the hospital shortly thereafter I had
the unique experience of actually being
more encouraged by the person I was
visiting than thinking that I might be
encouraging him to know Gus is to know
someone with a tremendous spirit but
also a tremendous intellect and while
he's not able to join us tonight I told
him yesterday by phone that the
important thing was not being him having
him here tonight but having him here for
the next twenty taglioferro lectures
still we are fortunate to be joined by
several members of the tagliaferro
family including Gus's brother Edie and
his wife Ronnie and other family members
please join me in welcoming them the
central theme of the Patricia Italia
fairy lecture series is that in the
midst of our polarized era politically
and culturally the great ideas remain
our touchstone in times of trouble ones
that should inform and prepare our
public leaders for the lecture to be
hosted by the school of public policy is
natural since over the last two decades
Wood has set this school apart from the
200 or so other graduate policy programs
has been this balanced approach to
leadership education studying the
importance of these timeless truths
offered by Scripture history and the
great thinkers alongside coursework and
the latest techniques in quantitative
Policy Analysis this has always been so
in a speech given just prior to the
opening of this school in 1997 the great
historian of California the late Kevin
Starr described the importance of this
new graduate program in this way and I
quote because Pepperdine remains ant
in values it can communicate itself to
the nation as seeking not just numbers
and statistics not just fancy
formulations but value in public life by
which I mean both religious and
philosophic value the Phyllis Sophia
perennis the perennial philosophy and
the judeo-christian tradition which has
shaped our civilization star concluded
it is only rarely that academic
discourse directly refers to these
values yet they remain implicit in what
is being thought and said unquote what
we are doing tonight is what the school
of public policy has been doing for over
20 years
discussing that perennial philosophy
that judeo-christian tradition which has
shaped our civilization and by so doing
preparing public leaders in government
nonprofits and the private sector and
tonight during what feels frankly like a
fragile time on this campus we need to
hear those truths again what better
night then to be learning about one of
the greatest text in that
judeo-christian tradition the book of
Exodus from one of its great teachers
Dennis Prager as many of you know Dennis
is the host of a nationally syndicated
radio show on the Salem radio networks
heard by over 2 million listeners weekly
he is the co-founder of the nonprofit
Prager you providing concise five-minute
video seminars on a variety of policy
and history related topics in 2017 alone
Prager you videos had over 500 million
views but the honor he holds most highly
I'm sure is the honorary doctorate he
received here at Pepperdine in 1997
for over four decades dennis has had a
passion for the Torah the Bible's first
five books in fact what first brought
Dennis out to California from his native
Brooklyn in 1976 was his appointment as
director of the Brandeis Bardon
Institute a Jewish educational center
tonight we will hear from Dennis as he
discusses his latest book a commentary
on the book of Exodus from his new
rational Bible series subtitled god
slavery and freedom the format for these
lectures begins with Dennis's remarks
followed by question and answer from you
all written out on three by five cards
which we will be supplying please join
me in welcoming back to Pepperdine our
fall 2018 Patricia taglioferro
distinguished lecturer dennis prager
[Applause]
thank you thank you
being Peterson hi everybody that was a
very beautiful introduction they're not
all beautiful University of Colorado
many years ago Boulder young woman got
up to introduce me she announced
immediately this was the first time
speaking publicly which became apparent
rapidly she read from a simple bio in
which it said among other things in Los
Angeles Times said mr. Prager is a moral
thinker obsessed with right and wrong
and she know that wasn't that was legit
but she read it as obsessed with doing
wrong
and I remember thinking how does she
know is a very perceptive Freudian
introduction that I received that night
well Dean it is true I am very proud of
my honorary doctorate here it's obvious
because it's listed in my official
biography so I I am proud so my friends
this is the this is a big subject I'm
it's a big deal that a school of public
policy invite somebody to talk about the
Bible the universities of the United
States are overwhelmingly secular
they're dogmatically secular and that's
why most of them teach a lot of nonsense
I don't say this with any joy I want to
make clear to this day the word
professor is is a holy word in my in my
brain but it's it's been two-faced
unfortunately I wrote a column years ago
about one of the most important moments
of my life when I was a graduate student
at Columbia University its School of
International Affairs and I walked
around the campus one day and I I was I
was really going crazy this was the
early 70s the height of all the nonsense
that we're still living through I was
told men and women are basically the
same United States in the Soviet Union
were basically the same two superpowers
just caught in a bottle like scorpions
but there was no moral difference no
moral difference between Israel and its
enemies I was also at the Middle East
Institute and the Russian Institute so I
was going crazy because I always want I
am overwhelmed by wanting to know why
just like when I was a little kid
why why why why is there so little
wisdom here why why are bright people
teaching me foolishness and a verse came
to my mind in Hebrew because I had
studied in yeshiva till I was 18
yes Shiva is half-day in Hebrew Jewish
subjects half-day in English secular
subjects and one of the prayers we said
in first grade as we entered the school
was from the Bible and we of course we'd
say it in Hebrew and it came into my
brain in Hebrew and it is the verse from
the Bible was the begins with a fear of
God and then this was the great epiphany
of my life
I mean I've come through a lot of
realizations about things but this was
the greatest and I realized there is no
wisdom at Columbia because there's no
God at Columbia and I am prepared to
defend that at Columbia and where I by
the way I did I actually gave I went
back to Columbia last year and spoke on
how I found God at Columbia which is the
truth I did that was it was it was that
revealing to me why is there no wisdom
at most universities is there is no God
at most universities there are
knowledgeable people who are godless but
I don't know any wise people who are
godless to be honest I just don't I
don't I don't I don't know who what
their books are I would like to be I
would like to know show me the godless
wisdom being written today in the New
York Times and The Washington Post in
books where there are there are
wonderful histories where if you want to
know every detail about Andrew Jackson I
just read a 800 page biography on
Jackson and I learned a great deal but
again and I'm not I don't know if that
author I don't know obviously whether he
affirms a God and religion but I'm
telling you this is the source of the
problem atheists should care about this
atheist should study the Bible I'm
reading now a thousand page biography of
Winston Churchill Churchill was not a
religious man at all you but in his
letters to his wife he cites the Bible
in his because it was it was assumed
everyone knew what you were talking
about it to Churchill maybe he I don't
even know if maybe Churchill was an
atheist I have no idea
but it doesn't matter to me if you're an
atheist it matters to me whether you
understand how important the Bible is
what you personally believe is your
business what you consider important for
society to study is my business and
they're ignorant
I truly believe I want to do such a test
I believe I think obviously I think it
would not apply here at Pepperdine but I
I would like at a regular or so-to-speak
University I would like to test a
hundred kids off the you know off the
street as it were in the middle of
campus and just say who were who were
Cain and Abel
I believe that half of America's college
students from Harvard to Montana State
could not identify Cain and Abel that's
pretty bad you know I'm not asking them
you know who is cateura which you don't
even know I was Abraham's wife after
Sarah but whether she was a concubine or
a wife is a debatable issue and I'm not
getting into it first of all it's in
Genesis and I'm here to talk about
Exodus but my point is this is not an
obscure question who we can enable this
is a crisis this this is the route the
Bible free America is the root of the
problem in my opinion I'll give you an
example of have the war on the Bible
Alaska Airlines still about ten years
ago would put a card on your tray when
they may still serve meals in coach some
of you may recall that students here
will not recall that they once were
served dinner was served for free they
didn't charge for luggage this is and
then we rode horses as well at that at
that time they would put in your on your
tray a little card with a verse from
somewhere in the Bible the there was so
much acrimony call caused by this such
hostility to Alaska Airlines they
stopped a friend of mine very recently
made an interest
point if they cited the Quran not only
would it be okay if you opposed it you
would be called an islamaphobe but
there's no such thing as a Biblia phob
there's no such thing as a Christiana
phob not amazing the only group that
doesn't have haters or Christians in the
whole wide world
every group if you're anti black you're
a racist if you're anti-hispanic you're
a xenophobe if you're anti-jewish you're
an anti-semite
right if you if you're anti-gay you're
you're a homophobe right but if you're
anti-christian it means you have a PhD
that's anti is it you talking to you by
the way so I I I'll never I'll be I'm
very open as you probably know anyone
who's heard me I'm really open and it's
a risk but it's generally a good thing
so this you'll get a kick out of
especially those of you who were
Christian one very prominent Christian
on it on an airplane flight on a private
plane across the country so there was a
lot of time to talk very deeply
committed evangelical Christian and we
talking theology finally looked at me as
you know Dennis the truth is you know we
would we'd love you to come to Christ
but the truth is you're far more
valuable to us as a Jew
he's right he's absolutely right
I defend Christians all the time and
then you have no idea how often you will
see in the comments section oh well no
wonder this guy says is he's a Christian
and then and then the next comment is
actually he's a Jew and then then you
know the guy never says oh I'm sorry or
I made a mistake or whatever but it's
it's very simple to be the end of the
Bible and the end of Christianity I mean
the end of America not because God will
punish us i I I'm a completely rational
believer okay when God gave out mystical
abilities I was in another line I know
that my belief is completely rational
God will not punish the United States
for D D biblia nor D God izing it will
it's a self-inflicted punishment God
doesn't have to do a damn thing okay
that's that as my I am certain because
we see it today we see it before us so I
want to do something with this rational
Bible it's five volumes on the first
five volumes of the Bible to Jews known
as the Torah and which are which are
seminal the first five books even to
Christians you read Christian
commentators they will acknowledge you
know their premise enter Paris there
first among equals all books of the
Bible are important but the first five
said everything and it's where the Ten
Commandments is that's where the
creation of the world is I mean it just
this is where it's at so I know that
most people don't really get it and I
don't blame them it's like I can't reach
Shakespeare without somebody explaining
Shakespeare and I speak English well but
I don't speak 16th century 17th century
English 16th century English I don't in
fact i envied by friends of other
countries who get to read Shakespeare in
their language we don't that's the
amazing thing english-speaking people
don't get a chance to read Shakespeare
in their own language
we need so so I'm blessed
I know Hebrew pretty much like English
and and I am one of the rare human
beings who loves grammar so I really
really have a mastery of Biblical Hebrew
grammar which is more important even
than vocabulary because you could always
look up a word but you but grammar helps
you understand what is going on
especially with Hebrew where there are
no vowels in the in the original text so
they're supplied later and it's it's a
very interesting issue but I want to
make this real for people this is the
source of my values by the way it's
another question I love asking people I
say look you know what I admit I get my
values from the Bible where do you get
your values from ask a secular person in
your family
you all have secular people in your
family it's it's a given so just just
not not in it in an aggressive way in a
curiosity way said I'm a admit it you
could you know for whatever it's worth I
get my values from the Bible I'm curious
where do you get yours from I've done
this on the radio if you don't get your
values from the Bible where do you get
it from and you have no idea how vapid
the responses are they are all from from
human experience what does that mean you
get your values from human experience or
we're even forget not just Val where do
you get your wisdom where do you get
it's not even a question that is
grappled with on most campuses there is
no wisdom so the question where do you
get wisdom from I mean it is the is the
antithesis of wisdom that there was no
such thing as male and female I mean
think about it and they accuse their
opponents of being anti science right so
let's let's be clear you can have a
vagina breasts menstruate produce eggs
have ovaries and have the proper
chromosomes but you're not necessarily a
woman that's mind blowing and to even
state what I have just stated like this
girl at Berkeley she has issues
while they had her on my radio show
today Isabella Chow I believe is her
name is she's a Filipino and and an
Asian so you think she would she would
be she has a lot going for her female
Filipino and 1/8 and East Asian I mean
so that's uh but it doesn't matter it's
it's like my friend Larry elder you
would think you know he's black he gets
he gets a he gets a free pass no he
doesn't because he doesn't say what the
left wants him to say all right so I my
desire is to show that it is the
greatest book ever written and to
explain the first five books so this is
the School of Public Policy and they
told me applying this to America and to
Modern Life so that's what I'm gonna do
I'm gonna give you as many lessons from
Exodus just Exodus but I will give you
one from Genesis because it's relevant
to a controversy that took place here at
Pepperdine and that was with regard to
Christopher Columbus's statue and I will
tell you how do i form my opinion on
statues of Confederate soldiers or on
judging you know Winston Churchill you
know the the Scott Kelly the astronaut
he tweeted out as the great 20th century
leader Winston Churchill said in you
know show man in victory show
magnanimity he was trying to unite
Americans with a sweet tweet he was so
blasted by leftists for quoting
churchill and saying he was one of the
great men of the 20th century that he
tweeted immediately afterwards i am so
sorry i did not know all about his
racism and how i will study what a
racist churchill was nobody who lived
before the left is a good human being
there are no good human beings it's an
amazing thing now maybe Lenin but but
but aside from that there are no good it
is it is an uber mensch philosophy of
life we are morally superior to all
those who live before
ii-i'll tell you exactly how I
approached past figures and it is 100%
taught to me by the Bible it's the only
book the only lesson I'm going to give
to you that isn't from Exodus but it's
relevant very relevant so I'm using it
Noah is saved by God the only person
saved is Noah on his family why is Noah
saved because he now here is the I'm
gonna directly translate from the Hebrew
because he was a a simple good man or
righteous man in his generations when I
was in third grade and learned this I
learned that in the Talmud the rabbinic
exegesis on the Bible and Jewish law and
philosophy they asked a very good
question by the way this is how I
learned to read texts I I do it to this
day when I read an internet article I do
it why does it say this when it could
have said this it is a brilliant way to
study text so the question was asked by
the rabbi's of the Talmud why does it
say Noah was a righteous man in his
generations why doesn't it just say he
was a righteous man God saved them
because he was a righteous man and the
the the answer to me is obvious because
in later generations he wouldn't have
been such a great guy but you know judge
people by later generations you judge
them within their generation that is
that's what that what I just told you is
called wisdom not because I said it I
got it from something else but there is
no wisdom in our secular university
world so they don't know this they think
you judge everybody who lived before you
buy the exact standards of your day but
then nobody passes there were no good
people only they are the enlightened so
some some arrogant kid at Yale is
morally superior to Churchill get it
church will only save the Western world
from Hitler which is remarkable for a
racist I guess why don't he like that
racist
if he was a racist why wasn't he
pro-hitler but this is how people don't
get wise because they don't have an
answer to the question which was I just
read a biography of Christopher Columbus
that a lot of awful things right that's
true in his day was he off more than
others I don't think so and he made it
possible for human rights to come to the
Western Hemisphere it's not I mean he
didn't do it intentionally but as a
result of him it happened and by the way
just to be clear this if there's a
statue of Peter Stuyvesant up in
Manhattan Peter Stuyvesant the first the
mayor or governor of New Amsterdam as it
was called the guy everybody knows
everyone knows I even knew it as a kid
he was an anti-semite I don't want a
statue taken down he was the first
governor of Manhattan he deserves a
statue if you want to learn that he was
an anti-semite I listened to vogner's
music Rogner was a racist anti-semite
his music brings me to tears I can
separate the vogner and his music should
we burn Bach why don't why don't we why
don't we stop playing vogner if we're
gonna take down Christopher Columbus we
got to take down vogner how could the LA
Philharmonic play a racist Hitler loved
Wagner for his racism okay but but what
I've just asked is so many light-years
in wisdom ahead of where they all are
because they don't know anything then
they are the know-nothings
and they know nothing in large measure
because they don't know the Bible that's
just the way it is
Lincoln very rarely went to church he
had one book on his nightstand his whole
life the Bible that's how you raised
kids the moral lessons of the Bible okay
so one Genesis Genesis comes out I hope
you'll have me back this is like a
tryout I was told if you're good tonight
maybe we'll have you for Leviticus
nobody knows what Leviticus is so maybe
no one will show up but it's a risk hey
I'll tell you something just
by the way so listen to this I'm not
saying to brag I never brag cuz it's
it's not of interest to me to brag but I
but I also don't deny what happens in my
life
so to my utter and total and absolute
shock the book was the number one
nonfiction bestseller in the United
States when it came out this book I'm a
Bible Commentary understand it's like am
I seeing things right it doesn't make
sense it's it it's just been doing
magnificently in terms of sales and if
you read the Amazon reviews in terms of
changing people's lives which is what I
wrote it for nobody writes Bible
commentaries to get rich proof I'm gonna
do a volume on Leviticus do you
understand that now let me tell you
something if that volume is a
best-seller I will smile as I leave this
planet I wrote a best-seller on
Leviticus this has never happened since
Leviticus was written you have to
understand it wasn't a best-seller when
they wrote it okay so this is like my
aim my ultimate aim oh yeah oh what are
you reading Leviticus they think it's a
recipe Leviticus parmesan okay so here's
a bunch of the lessons from Exodus to
apply to to society no order of
importance okay just here goes
commandment number six does not say do
not kill this is understandable that
that's the King James translation it
says do not murder those of you listen
to me regularly know I've talked about
this is extremely important point if it
said do not kill Hebrew like English has
two words for homicide kill and murder
they murder is immoral killing and only
of a human being you if somebody said to
you how are they were a bunch of
mosquitoes in the house and I murdered
them
you would say huh unless you're in PETA
in which case you would say that is
murder and you should you should go to
prison because PETA does believe in sex
and humans are on similar planes that's
the ultimate consequence of secularism
People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals which by the way had a program
called Holocaust on your plate and the /
and the program is you could look it up
it still exists for PETA that the
barbecuing of billions of chickens is
the moral equivalent to the cremating of
millions of Jews that is the position of
People for the Ethical Treatment of
Animals to which many Jews contribute
because many of my fellow Jews are
leftists in their religion that's their
religion Judaism is their ethnicity and
leftism is their religion somewhat like
the Pope whose theology is Catholic and
whose values are leftist it's not only
unique to Jews unfortunately so it says
do not murder you are allowed to kill
you are not allowed to murder and
therefore the pacifist argument that the
commandment says do not kill is just
it's just false it doesn't say that
Hebrew as I said has two words just like
English does for taking a life and you
are allowed to take a life in
self-defense - to defend other innocence
to execute a premeditated murderer but
you are not allowed to murder which is
immoral killing there's moral killing
and immoral killing number two in the
beginning of the Ten Commandments
it says God spoke all of these words
saying it makes it clear the
commandments come from God not from
Moses the text itself makes it clear
because if God is not the author and
Moses is you have the very easy out
right why should I listen to Moses okay
he's
better than me and if even if he was
better in those days he's not better
than me today he he never went to
college how bright could he be and
therefore this is how people would think
God is the source of do not murder I
have a video out at Prague University
the five minute videos if God did not if
God did not declare murder wrong it is
not wrong that's just that by the way
every atheist philosopher I ever read
acknowledged that if God is not the
source of morality morality is relative
the only way that you can have an
absolute right and wrong is if there is
a transcendent source for it just like
the Declaration of Independence
inalienable rights come from the Creator
if they came from the government or from
man then man can undo them only if God
is the source of these inalienable
rights can we speak of them being
inalienable but this is this drives
people crazy you should read the
comments on the videos thousands and
thousands of comments on how stupid
Prager is I guess Prager would kill if
he if he didn't believe God said do not
kill or do not murder that's the great
argument that they have it's a good
thing Prager believes in God or he'd be
going around murdering power it sounds
powerful to them because they went to
college so mcore SIF God doesn't say
murder is wrong who does your feelings
your your your conscience your
government your friends your society the
New York Times editorial page
I mean who says it okay so that's number
two God is the source of morality number
three there is a great verse in Exodus
which is part of the reason the Left
loads the Bible and that is do not favor
the poor in judgment it is like it's
like the antidote to leftism in one
verse justice must be gender free class
free ethnicity free
there's only one justice based on the
truth of the of the conditions if a
millionaire is in court with a pauper
your heart goes out to the pauper and
the millionaire won't miss his hundred
dollars let's say it's a very chintzy
millionaire and he is sued a poor guy
for $100 the left-wing view is a what's
a hundred dollars to to a billionaire or
a millionaire it's a great deal of money
to this guy so what's let's this is
social justice the Bible isn't
interested in social justice
it's interested in justice social
justice is a fraud whenever you add a an
adjective to a good noun you have raped
the noun of its meaning it's like
there's democracy and then there's
people's democracy right democracy is
very nice people's democracy means
totalitarian regimes just one word has
ruined it social justice has nothing to
do with justice it has to do with
fairness maybe and they're right it
isn't fair that the rich guy wins in
court against the poor guy it's true but
it's just there's only one noun
duplicated in the in the first five
books in the Torah and that is the word
justice justice justice shall Val pursue
it's in Deuteronomy that's what you have
to run after justice there is no concept
they even the word social justice a
brand-new it's a brand-new theme and it
means whatever we want it to mean means
we bend justice do not favor the poor in
judgment number four
freedom is a value not an instinct
people do not yearn to be free people
yearn to be taken care of America is an
aberration because it valued freedom
more than being taken care of
the left is is much more
consonant with human nature in this
regard that's why it's popular all over
the world because people don't want to
be free nearly as much as they want to
be taken care of and how do you know
that what's the first thing the Hebrews
the Israelites the Jews do after leaving
Egypt complain much of the Hebrew Bible
is about Jews complaining by the way
just parenthetically it is the reason I
believe the Torah is divine because no
Jew would have written how bad the Jews
were oh I'm sometime a hundred percent
sincere about that it sounds funny but
I'm a hundred percent serious there is
no other Bible on earth where its
protagonists are negatively portrayed
the Jews come off pretty awfully in the
Jewish Bible no Jew would have written
that no Greek would have written about
bad Greeks it's not not no Jew it if
nobody would have people don't do that
this is the single biggest reason I
believe in its authenticity
God is the hero not the Jews it's a big
deal very big deal so they come out of
Egypt and then they immediately start
screaming at Moses take us back to Egypt
we ate better there they did they might
have eaten better there they had this
you know very tasteless manna although
we would thought that in yeshiva I'll
never forget in like fourth grade I
perked up when the rabbi said so the
rabbi's asked what did manna taste like
and the answer is whatever you wanted it
to taste like it was a miracle of the
Lord and I thought oh that's a great
deal that now I don't know why they're
complaining and I remember thinking holy
crow like a pastrami on rye in the
desert
this is like great I envied them then I
realized there was a it was a legend
it's not in the Bible that it takes that
anyway you wanted so it might have been
boring but they preferred that's what
they say we had flesh we had meat in
Egypt bring us back it's like the left
they tell that my whole life I heard
this oh there is a 100% literacy rate in
Cuba and I'm thinking so what I rather
be illiterate and free than in a
totalitarian state and literate if all I
could read are is Marx Lenin and Castro
I'd rather not read that's it
no no I'm it's so obvious to me oh they
have free healthcare so did slaves
slaves have free healthcare no no slave
owner wanted his slaves to die it was a
lost investment free health care like
that is the suom bonum of society free
health care there's free health care in
Cuba not much of it but it exists so
this is what turns them on that's why
they could celebrate such a monster like
Fidel Castro anyway
America was founded on values not human
instincts and liberty is a value
remember as an American Trinity as I've
dubbed it it's on every coin Liberty
eeep lorvis unum and God We Trust no
other country has such a Trinity it's
the American Trinity I have a book on it
still the best hope and this is what we
have as a value liberty is a value
everything is a value marriage is a
value for love and marriage go together
like a horse and carriage isn't true
love and marriage go together in
societies that announce love and
marriage go together but if you don't
announce love and marriage go together
then they don't go together everything
is a value everything except for human
instincts like sex that's not a value
what you do with sex is a value but sex
is in a value it's human instinct and
the Bible is there to give you values
that is why the Liberty Bell cites a
verse from the Torah Jews don't know
this and Christians don't know this
other than that it's very well-known a
verse from guess where Leviticus that
shows the founders were awesome that
they knew the Bible so all they even
knew Leviticus yes you shall proclaim
Liberty throughout the land to all its
inhabitants from chapter 25 in Leviticus
they knew it's a value liberties of
value and it's not a left-wing value it
isn't equality is although so they claim
but not but not Liberty and and I got
this and I don't know eighth grade
seventh grade I got this the Jews that
left Egypt didn't value Liberty they
valued eating better take us back to
Egypt not amazing next why don't I give
you 1 2 3 4 this is 5 you don't have to
love your parents it's a biblical
principle
yeah it's commandment to love your
neighbor as a commandment to love God as
a commandment to love the stranger
there's no commandment to love your
parents there's only a commandment to
honor your parents parents have a unique
position in the Bible unique first of
all they're the only humans you're told
to honor you're not told to honor our
kings you're not told to honor anyone
just your parents but you don't have to
love them which is very liberating
because a lot of people have ambivalence
toward their parents but even if you're
ambivalent you still have to honor them
in America today I'll prove it to you I
don't know you and I'll bet most of you
are conservative
nevertheless I'll take a gamble I want
you to raise your hand and think for a
moment you don't have to be embarrassed
because I'm not asking if this is true
in your family I'm only asking you if
you know of any family where an adult
child does not speak to a parent raise
your head please raise their hand hi I
want everybody to look around the room
okay so is that about half F at least
half of you okay that's the result I get
everywhere it's a crisis in the United
States it is an epidemic of adult
children who won't speak to a parent
because they're angry with them this is
a relatively new 50 years ago half a
room would not have raised their hand
they would have wondered why the speaker
even asked the question gee that I mean
you know I know kids who don't get along
with their parents but of course they
talk to them they don't in America today
because we have substituted therapy for
morality they go to a therapist the
therapist tells them no there's no
reason for you to talk to your mother
III hear your anger I've done this on
radio I have this massive advantage and
I admit it I'm the only Bible
commentator to speak to millions of
people for 30 years okay that I could
say with certitude I have learned so
much I have I have a society as an
audience I have a society with feedback
I I woman called up I said call me up if
you don't talk to your parent I mean who
gets to do that so the lines light up
like a Christmas tree and so I remember
the twist woman calls up I said I don't
remember her name it and I wouldn't tell
it to you anyway but I mean I don't know
their last name so it's irrelevant and
she said so said how old you said 25 I
said you don't speak to whom I said I
don't speak to my mother at all at all I
said I'm just curious did your mother
abused you and she sexually abused you
did she physically abuse you that she
humiliate you said no no on the contrary
she loved me
I said I'm missing something here your
mother loved you and you don't talk to
her that's right I said may I ask why
so she said because my mother is a
domineering personality and if I let her
back in my life she would dominate it so
I said well isn't the answer to ignore
her domination rather than act like
you're dead to your mother who loved you
and then I said I'm just curious have
you seen a therapist said yes does your
therapist agree absolutely I knew the
answer my next question would have been
was he therapist a female because I
would bet two-to-one that the therapist
was I have if you want to ask me during
Q&A why I said that
it doesn't emanate from misogyny it
actually emanates from a realization
that both sexes have big issues to deal
with but we don't recognize that women
have any issues to deal with it's part
of the problem in our society we teach
boys how to control themselves but not
girls so they have gone many girls have
gone nuts and they have allowed empathy
and nurturing to to overwhelm reason and
it's it's it's just evil not to talk to
your parent it just is and I only know
that because the Bible tells me that I
have to honor my parent even if I don't
like them and I begin my introduction
and and it's a very long introduction
and I even have on the first page of
chapter one please read the introduction
so you'll know what I'm trying to do
with this commentary and I open up the
introduction with an autobiographical
statement in my early 20s I was I had
ambivalence toward my parents I had what
many people have anger and then
unresolved issues and so on I always
called my parents
I left their home at 21 I called them
every week until they died my mother at
89 my father at 96 anywhere I was on
earth I called my parents I
did so because I believed that God said
to me honor your father and mother that
is the only reason I called them when I
was ambivalent about them and thank God
I did for their sake and for my sake
because it gradually it wasn't because
God said so is because I just thought it
was the right thing to do and I wanted
to say hello to my parents these this is
this is a these cases that you all
raised your hand about in 90% of the
cases the kid is secular the notion that
God demands that they honor their
parents even if they're angry at them
never dawned on them because they're
told
follow your heart now it happens not to
be in in Ex in Exodus so I'm not gonna
comment on it - how often the Torah and
the Bible tell you not to follow your
heart that alone is the antithesis of
leftism you don't follow your heart so
we're not we don't have to love our
parents we have to honor them not only
that it's the only one of the Ten
Commandments that specifies as a reward
that's something so that you will live
long on the land that I bring you to in
other words a society that we're where
children do not honor parents won't
survive that is the case the first thing
totalitarian states do is break the
child parent Authority connection Hitler
Youth come samal and it's now happening
in the United States parents don't have
to okay if their sixteen-year-old wants
her breasts removed sixteen-year-old
girls in Britain are getting double
mastectomies because they think they're
boys and the parents don't know about it
cuz the authorities say you don't have
to tell a parent if the child wants to
have her breasts removed
if she thinks he's a boy okay number or
whatever I have three more the worst sin
some of you may remember my first radio
show was not national was in LA and it
was called religion on the line I was
the moderator at a priest minister rabbi
different ones each week and eventually
had representatives of every religion on
earth the only ones who never came were
jehovah's witnesses they were invited
but just didn't work out but i had every
religion on earth representatives came i
learned an immense amount it was one of
the greatest ten years of my life in
many ways and it's part of the reason i
really did i ended up by loving
america's christians that's when i had
the beginning of a love affair that's
still indoors and i would begin the show
every sunday night a two-hour show no
ads and i would begin with a topic so i
remember in the 10 years maybe once well
more than once maybe twice or three
times I would go around the room and I'd
say according to you and your religion
what is the worst sin and a lot of
clergy have not thought about that it's
an interesting question so people had
all sorts of answers blaspheming the
holy spirit and whole host of answers
and I don't recall but I knew what I
what I believe is that biblical for what
is the worst sin and that is it's in the
commandment do not take God's name in
vain it says because he will not forgive
whoever takes his name in vain there's
no other commandment no other sin God
says he won't forgive
most Christians think that do not take
God's name in vain means don't say Oh
God
unless it's in prayer or something
sacred but I always knew that that
didn't make sense God will forgive
murder but he won't forgive if you say
oh my god the Jews
see that home run that he won't forgive
it
God is not a dummy in fact you want to
know my most heretical belief here it is
God has common sense this drives a lot
of religious people crazy they think
they have common sense but God doesn't
God does God is not gonna not forgive
God is gonna not be in a position a
forgiving murder but not forgiving oh
god what a tough day at the office
please yeah but you have no idea how
many emails in the course of my life
I've gotten Dennis we love you and
listen but why do you say oh my god
you're taking God's name in vain I
always explained God is not God's name
God's name is Jehovah or Yahweh or
whatever so that's number one number two
that's not what that means and this is
what I explained this I know Hebrew the
Hebrew is doing is not do not take the
Hebrew is do not carry do not carry
God's name in vain that's not the same
thing as do not take may be related but
it's not the same thing who carries
God's name in vain those who do evil in
God's name that's the greatest sin
that's the only thing God won't forgive
because if you do evil in God's name you
have made it impossible to tie God with
morality which is what the whole Bible
is about God wants goodness the
therefore I that's why I am I am certain
that Islamic terrorists are in hell
because they committed that they commit
the greatest sin possible by the way
those who murder in the name of Christ
the same thing would hold its but that's
not happening in our time so when
whenever callers say well you know what
about the Inquisition
well that was 15th century Spain in 20th
century and 21st century West Christians
aren't killing people in the name of
Christ
I'm sorry so why don't we talk about the
present day in the present day the only
murdering in God's name is done by
Islamic terrorists but of course you you
can't you could say anything you want
about Christians but you can't say which
isn't even true but you can't say you
can't say what is true about Muslims I
can because I have a radio show but I do
it anyway because I do it respectfully I
debated the head of the Muslim Public
Affairs Committee at at Claremont
Graduate School and he was one of the
biggest Muslims in the United States
there were Muslims in the audience
wearing headscarves and the topic was
does Islam need to be reformed I said
yes he said no we had a great debate we
respected each other we went to lunch
there's the dinner and here's the
amazing thing we went to dinner after I
said I think it's not true it isn't true
that Islam is a religion of peace it has
not been a religion of peace nobody
walked out no Muslim booed me nobody
called me in islamaphobe you could
disagree with me or agree with me but
it's not it doesn't come from a place of
hate it's either true or not true so you
can say truths but unless the left is
around but but so Christians are still
getting it because of the Inquisition
I'm amazing
by the way and how many people were
killed me Inquisition in 300 years about
2,000 less than 2,000 everyone is a
horrible evil death but it's not what
people say millions go on the internet
you see millions by the way it's Jewish
historians who wrote this leo kam and
kam en one of the great scholars of the
Inquisition anyway the worst sin is is
evil and God's name next to last
penultimate lesson from Exodus evolution
not revolution you want to make a better
world you've got to go slowly give you
an example there's a law in Exodus that
if you have a particularly awful child a
a wayward son as it's sometimes called
and you take him to the the elders that
is the court of your city and if they
find him guilty they will stone him and
everybody uses that as an example of how
primitive the Bible is actually I show
and nobody has yet contravene this that
is one of the great moral advances in
history that law you know why the Torah
brilliantly took killing children out of
parents hands forever in every society
parents could kill their children the
Bible brilliantly ended that possibility
take him to the elders but we don't have
a single instance in Jewish history of
elders stoning a kid so it was it ended
the killing of children but still under
the rubric of keeping parental authority
if it just said you can't kill your
child in what just would have continued
same with slavery okay no slaves
everybody would feel good today oh look
it says no slaves instead it made
slavery humane and showed God hate
slavery because the biggest act he does
after creating the world is take slaves
from from bondage to liberty and finally
there's a law in I love the obscure laws
because that's why my commentary is
worth its 2395 or whatever is being
charged I show the obscure laws have
great power moral power there's a law
that if an ox goes a human you kill the
Ox doesn't seem right was an ox no can't
hold an ox responsible can't you know
the Ox didn't debate oh yeah you know I
know it's wrong to kill but I do have
horns after all so gotta use him why do
we kill an ox that killed a human to
show how bad taking human life is
that's the whole reason if if you kill
the human who obviously is not guilty
you have lost your right to live now
obviously if a human does it and there's
a whole series of laws if it's done by
accident you're not killed but you do
flee to a a City of Refuge it's very
serious taking human life in in Exodus
in the Hebrew Bible
by the way capital punishment for
premeditated murder is the only law in
all five books of the Torah the only one
it's one of the only laws in Genesis so
listen to this a I raised this on some
show or I didn't raise it I don't know
how it happened a woman called told me
the following story this is what I mean
the in penance in I put it in the
commentary she they had an ostrich farm
her pear family and her father was
killed by an ostrich
apparently they kick very hard I've
always had this great love for ostriches
but they don't hang around them since
that call I have to say I I watched
videos anyway so the father was actually
killed by one of the ostriches and I
immediately said only because of this
verse in Exodus what did you do to the
ostrich and she said he's still there so
I said I'm just curious so do you tell
people or you see that's the ostrich
that killed my father
she said yeah and I thought that was
disturbing it to me and to the Torah it
trivialized the father's homicide it's
not the ostriches fault
he's not being killed because it's his
fault he's being killed because he took
the human life and shouldn't be just
there as a souvenir of the father's
death there is Jerry Jerry kicked that
to death smashed his head in
I could obviously spend a month with the
lessons of just Exodus but this is why
oh I just told his very touching I spoke
last Sunday night in Phoenix a week ago
Sunday night in Phoenix at the opening
of a big new Orthodox synagogue in
Scottsdale so they invited me to be the
last speaker which is an honor in Jewish
life because they assume everybody
leaves beforehand and so they stayed I
was touched so there are a lot of there
were a lot of Orthodox rabbis there from
Israel and beards and yarmulkes and
everybody worried yarmulke but their
beards and you know I know my my Jewish
world it was a very religious crowd a
lot of the people but I I decided a very
early age Dennis just say what you
believe and let the chips fall where
they may and I caught up but he told
them at some point I said I just want
you to know I love the Torah even more
than I love God and nobody fainted but
it's true I admit it I love the Torah
more than I love God I have just like I
had issues with my parents I have issues
with God
there's too much unjust suffering for me
to easily love God I admit it that's why
by the way I'm gonna sneak in a
Deuteronomy point forgive me love the
Lord your God with all your soul with
all your heart with all your mind you'll
like this point you ready what does that
law show two things one love of God
isn't natural 2 God knows it doesn't
tell us to love our kids that's natural
loving God is effortful there's a lot of
paint on this earth and if you were
attuned to it it ain't easy but I do
love the Torah his gift I believe to us
and if I can get you to love it it will
enhance your Judaism it'll enhance your
Christianity
and it will Hance your life if you're
neither of them that's my belief I hope
this helped thank you very much thank
you thank you very much non-believers
they are merely victims of the weakness
of modern believers there's no question
that religious people are part of the
problem of course that's true but I'll
give you a non-religious example how did
the so-called greatest generation the
generation that fought World War two and
lived through the depression how did
they produce the worst generation in
American history my generation my
generation the baby boomer generation
has more narcissism per capita than any
generation in American history
arrogance narcissism America hatred it
permeates my generation a lot of
wonderful people in my generation too
obviously but there's nothing like it
how did such good Americans produce
children who hated America because they
didn't know how to teach what America
was about what happens is what happened
is Americans got complacent Christians
got complacent the assumption was hey I
go to church Sunday's my kids will go to
church Sunday's my parents went to
church Sunday's my grandparents went to
church Sunday so my kids will totally
understandable thing habit took over
took over in Jewish life well well just
you know the Jews Jews it's a Jews don't
worry all the time about survival and by
the way for good reason and one of the
one of their worries is intermarriage
because generally speaking Jews who
marry non-jews the kids don't end up
Jewish okay so as I said when I was a
kid speaking to Jewish audiences you
never gave him a reason to be Jewish why
wouldn't they
doubt you never gave him a reason to be
in you just assumed a I'm a Jew my
parents were a Jew Mike it'll be a Jew
didn't work out that way so it's true in
Christian life is true in American life
and it is true in Jewish life so in that
sense yes obviously religious people
don't know how to make the case and but
I don't fully blame them for it
it just happened it is so we have to
take the problem where it is and I'm
trying in whatever years God gives me to
help solve it this is this is my attempt
because I don't know how you can read
this and then say it's worthless
you may differ with certain conclusions
but I don't I don't know how you would
do that so we have a moral obligation to
learn how to make the case for God for
the Bible for our religion otherwise in
a free society it won't work we didn't
we didn't even make the moral case for
America let alone for our religion this
question as a native Californian and
conservative I'm losing hope in our
beautiful state what can I do to get our
state back on track so it values one
person's responsibility well you know no
you should feel that way you know I'm
sorry you asked me that question I try
to I try to I don't fully hide it but I
don't do well on my pessimism I I'm
really a happy pessimist I that's that
this state I don't know what to tide I
don't know a way around the just the
staggering debt in this state thanks to
pension plans I mean just just that
alone and the I mean if maybe maybe
Newsom will ruin it so much that people
will awaken but I don't think they do
but when the left ruins things there are
two reactions that people have oh we'll
bring in the right to fix it up then the
right
fixes it up and then they go right back
to the left this is true all over the
world or they will say we don't have
enough left ISM that's the other
left-wing response we didn't do it
enough there's still some freedom
there's still some taxes to be collected
we don't we're not taking enough from
citizens like Prager who are clearly the
wealthy among us after all I did write a
Bible commentary and you know how much
that makes you know have Leviticus get
rich so look what what do you do okay
there were two there are two types of
people who do good fighters and those
who help the fighters not everybody's a
fighter but everybody could help the
fighters I'm a fighter Prager University
is if is my is my example well have a
billion views this year and most of them
are under 35 years of age we're changing
we're changing minds but we're not
changing them fast enough it's like I
feel a race on that issue by every young
person in this audience that I met I
might say every young person this
audience knows me through Prager you and
I see that around the car just spoke in
Romania this summer to 1500 young people
in English because of Prager you videos
so you can help us you can help any it's
Pepperdine doing good you help
Pepperdine is Hillsdale doing good you
help Hillsdale let's pray are you doing
good you've helped Prager you is
Alliance defending freedom doing good
for religious liberty you help Alliance
defending freedom that that you do we
don't expect everybody to be on the
front line but you you somebody has to
help the people the people who bring the
supplies to the guys in the front line
are just as important as the guys on the
front line no supplies no front line so
that's that's what you have to do you
have to help the guys who were fighting
but but California looks looks very
troubled III acknowledge that if if if
the weather you know if global
were as terrible as they say maybe
people would leave California then it
would become hot like everyplace else
there no more advantage to living here
and then they would empty out but when
you know whenever I leave California I
think god am i lucky to live in
California so it's amazing I will take
good weather we and Democrats you know
it doesn't speak well for me I admit it
I could have I could have crappy weather
and Republicans in Oklahoma but I didn't
I opted for good weather and Democrats
it I admit it doesn't speak well for me
it'll be on my tombstone Prager opted
for good weather over values okay can
you comment on the recent rise of
anti-semitism the only rise in
anti-semitism is on campuses because of
all the anti-zionism activity which is
which is a phony a word for
anti-semitism there there is no rise in
anti-semitism otherwise in the United
States it's it's it's manufactured by
the media because they want to blame it
on Donald Trump it's just a fraud I'm
telling you read the abl a report is
fraudulent major analysis by an
anti-trump professor at George Mason
University a Jewish professor just
writing it's a fraudulent report you
remember I remember I was on CNN
regularly at that time and I remember
how often Oh this major outbreak of
anti-semitism since Donald Trump got
elected hundreds of Jewish community
centers have bomb threats so yes they
did hundreds of Jewish community centers
did have bomb threats guess who called
them in 90% were called in by an
American Jewish kid with mental problems
living in Israel the other 10% were
called in by a black radical who wanted
a frame his ex-girlfriend not one was
called in by a trump supporter American
white racist nationalist whatever you
want to call it I went on CNN on Don
Lemon show said dumb turns out it was
has nothing to do with Trump
that the whole media lied which is like
saying the media breathed I'm sorry to
say that it is identical breathing in
line are come as naturally to the media
because because and this I say every day
because I met I knew this when I studied
at the Russians do not study communism
because truth is not a left-wing value
the equality is a left-wing value
progress is a left-wing value fighting
the right is a left-wing value but truth
is not so Matruh for lying and lying and
lying but there's no comparison and by
the way there's not true for liberals
truth is a liberal value it's not a
left-wing value and I make the
distinction every day i broadcast and in
a video and in a column if you want to
look it up
one simple difference between a liberal
leftist liberals believed in racial
integration leftist believe in racial
segregation okay
black dorms on universities is anti
liberal you can't be a liberal and
support a black dormitory that's a pure
undiluted racism pure so if you support
it you're a leftist that's how you can
figure out ask your relative sound
curiously you will are you a liberal or
a leftist they'll say what are you
talking about the same thing I said I'll
give you an example do you think black
dormitories is a morally good thing or a
morally bad thing that's your dividing
line I mean there are many other
dividing lines that the video is five
minutes the article is 750 words but
there are a lot of differences and we
need to know what they are that's a
great question I don't I know how but I
don't know why maybe well wait oh yes I
do know here it goes and there is one
woman here who has been with me for all
these years through University of
Judaism and knows this I course it so
the all right solve this is this it's a
it's a high story it's a it's a good
question to end with so listen to this
let's see this would have been 19 I
moved here to California 1976 I was in
my 20s so this would have happened okay
so about ten years later I was invited I
was already doing religion online so I
was invited by a Chabad rabbi at UCLA
the Chabad rabbi UCLA I was invited he
called me up Denis would you come and
talk to the Jewish students I said oh
I'd love to and I meant it I'd love to I
said so you want me to talk about
Judaism he said no nobody'll show up
I'll never forget that it was it was it
was awesome so I said what do you want
me to talk about he said something light
so I said okay what what's a light topic
he said happiness so I'll this was
life-changing this was an amazing moment
I said rabbi happiness is not a light
subject happiness is a serious problem
and he said great title that's how the
title of my book came from that rabbis
response to my response it was awesome
so I gave a speech at UCLA happiness is
a serious problem and I recorded the
speech then it was cassettes I recorded
it on a cassette recorder and I I don't
think I ever did this before or since
I listened to my speech that night
because I knew I'm never gonna give this
again nobody and asked me to speak on
happiness religion morality politics
happiness so I recorded it and at that
time by the way to this day people
subscribe to my lectures they get a
lecture a month from me so I wanted to
see was it good enough to send out
that's why I listened to it this is what
happened when I listened to it I
remember being I was alone and I was
listening to it and I just kept saying
good point
that is a really good point I'm gonna
adopt that in my life
this guy is good no III listened like I
wasn't the speaker and I sent it out and
then I was certain that is the end of my
doing anything on the subject of
happiness about six months later I got a
letter there were young people here
letters came in mail it it's very hard
to explain they would be hand-delivered
to you they had a stamp on them stamps
were things to prove that you paid to
send the letter anyway so I got a letter
from said Redbook magazine so I thought
you know they're asking for a
subscription I open it up and no no I
take it back I'm so sorry is there was
mail but it was not no I got a call I'm
so sorry
I got a call dennis prager yes this is
some somebody she had an Italian name on
the articles editor of Redbook magazine
I'm thinking did you want Dennis Prager
am i the Dennis Prager you want the
articles editor at Redbook said yes I
said what do you have on in mind he said
I heard your speech on happiness I lit
up you know the articles editor in red
book in Manhattan heard my speech on
happiness I go do you subscribe to my
lectures like oh I never heard of you in
my life I didn't even know you put out
lectures but a friend of mine oh no I'm
not a frontline but I heard you on New
York radio I said you heard my speech on
happiness on New York radio said yeah I
said what channel should W EVD wev D was
the Yiddish English Jewish station the
crooks total crooks what they did could
they could have been fined $100,000 they
take a whole talk from someone with no
permission and just played it
these crooks changed my life for the
better I hope they are in heaven today
basking in the glory of what they did so
I I said so she said yes I stayed in my
car it was snowing out I was staying
stayed in my car till I found out who is
this guy I got to get in touch with him
to their great credit at least they
didn't say and what'd you think of that
speech from our own Harry Rabinowitz no
they didn't do that they said this guy
named dennis prager out on the coast and
will be back so she looked me up found
me said i'll the speech was awesome
you've got to write an article on
happiness for red book it's really a
great story that's why I'm so then so
then so I said okay and she said it's
$3,000 okay I'm thinking about my god
God God has shown his glory upon me and
I remember realizing when I would write
for commentary magazine you know what I
got for writing for commentary five free
copies of commentary
that's what they sent you can give it to
your mother your father your wife yeah
$3,000 this is the 1980s that's like
$400,000 today so I said that that's
fine she could have said a hundred and
twelve dollars I would have taken it so
I write the article for Redbook they
publish it then I got a call from Random
House we'd like you to write a book on
happiness and I remember what I said cuz
I really AM direct I said you gotta be
kiddin I'm lucky I had an article in me
I don't have a book in me thank you for
calling but it put a thing in my brain
maybe I have more to say on happiness
than an article so I decided I'll give a
course at the University of Judaism as
it was then known on Mulholland and I
was eight 90-minute sessions unhappiness
so people knew me from the radio they
they came then I thought wow do I have a
book in me eight times is is 12 hours 12
hours is a lot but I said it's not
enough I'm gonna give eight I'm gonna
give a well what was this one eight
course yeah I'm gonna give us 16 courses
and if I could make 16 90 minute talks
unhappiness meaningful I have a book in
me I gave 16 courses and it's still
available by the way out and
interestingly and then I called random
house or my agent I said okay I'm gonna
write a book came they gave me the the
advance I didn't finish the book I gave
them their advance back and ate popcorn
for many a day because I'd spent all
that money then I really wrote it came
out as happinesses serious problem with
HarperCollins in 1999 and this is what I
realized I realized that in working out
happiness for Dennis I came up with a
lot of good ideas because I'm no
different from anyone in this room and
that was what that has always been my
belief I am just like everybody
I may think about things more I may have
a gift here or there but I am just like
everybody else and that has guided my
principles in life if it works for me
it'll work for you and it turned out to
be true and why did I call it happiness
is a serious problem when that guy
called me the rabbi and said Oh Ally
topic I was going through with divorce
happiness was not a light topic when he
called me up it was a very painful topic
happiness was a serious problem when he
called me up that's why I said it to him
and by the way you'll find this really
of interest than with this I will shut
up and that is I have looked at all the
pain that I have had and everybody alive
has pain I've looked at all the pain
that I have gone through as a gift to
enable me to help others in their pain
because if I didn't have any pain I
couldn't have written the book or do a
happiness hour every week that is the
only reason I can do it because I've had
to deal with these issues so I am very
rational unhappiness just as I am on
religion and the ideas work and I'm very
touched because it's the book it still
sells well on Amazon and I I started at
the exact same time an hour a week on my
show I even did the happiness hour the
week of 9/11 and I explained if I can't
talk about happiness when this tragedy
it's useless then I have nothing to say
because everybody has tragedy so that's
a little summation of a great question
to end on it has been an honor to be
with you thank you very much dennis
prager thank you again thank you
Thank You Dennis
folks before we conclude I just wanted
to make a couple closing thoughts you
can be seated but this won't take long
first I wanted to give a shout out to my
staff nice like this don't just come
together from the scheduling of this
auditorium to the signage to making sure
you're all communicated with so much of
that was handled by my events
coordinator and executive assistant at
the School of Public Policy Melissa
Espinoza over there so please join me in
thanking her also on my staff Sheryl
Covey the assistant dean of
administration at the policy school Mary
Jo Hardman as well Jacqueline Ramirez
who also checked you in please join me
in thanking them for their time here so
I just wanted to say a couple things
just springing off a Dennis's last
remarks this is a policy school and who
here is your first time in a policy
school event here at Pepperdine Wow okay
if you're not familiar with who we are I
would ask you to sign an email list in
the back just so we can keep you updated
on events I think it's fair to say that
there's not another school in Southern
California that is hosting events like
this our next policies our next event is
scheduled for January 31st we're going
to be welcoming University of Penn law
professor Amy wax and Alan Dershowitz to
talk about freedom of speech on campus
our own dr. Bob Kaufman here in the
third row is going to be moderating that
event if you'd like to be on the email
list for that again January 31st please
let me know we also have a initiative
out of the Graduate policy school called
the American project on the future of
conservatism in which we actually take
conservatism seriously and believe it
has a lot to say to our politics and
policy if you'd like to know more about
the american pride
jekt and I work there again please sign
on our email list which is at the back
of the room Matt Cutler is our director
of advancement is the nice looking
gentleman who looks like Secret Service
in the back there if you'd like to find
out more about the policy school please
see him as well we are going to have a
reception afterwards at the sandbar
that's just across the plaza here and so
we would invite you to join us for some
refreshments as well and again just to
say how I don't know how you did it
Dennis but I think I know how you did it
because I've seen you speak before but
to begin with talking about these very
important truths and to close with
really the most important truth which is
understanding why we have been put on
this earth and why our founders
understood something like the pursuit of
happiness which is what we teach
uniquely at the policy school was not a
pursuit of haha happiness it was a
pursuit of happiness classically
understood which is finding our purpose
in life and having the freedom and
liberty to pursue it that's what we
teach here because one of the tag lines
that we use at Pepperdine and at the
Graduate policy school is that we
believe that there's actually a public
in public policy so many of these kinds
of programs are very much about policy
and about training experts that could
then go out and tell all the rest of us
how stupid we are that has never been
the case at Pepperdine when you're
founded by people like Kevin Starr and
James Q Wilson and Robert Novak and you
know Jack Kemp and people that were
always involved in the founding of our
unique graduate school we were always
going to be different and we are always
going to remain different to the
question about are you you know
disappointed or you know feel bad about
the state of politics in California
we're not moving the School of Public
Policy is not moving we are staying here
and we are going to be a problem for a
very long time
because we believe what Dennis talked
about tonight that there are timeless
truths and these are truths that are
bearing that are worth not just knowing
but teaching as Dennis said this is not
natural some of this is not natural and
as our founder James Q Wilson taught us
especially through his book the moral
sense there is a human nature that we
have to deal with but there are timeless
truths that we can refer to in dealing
with them and we need more of these
kinds of conversations in our policy and
politics and at the school of public
policy we will continue to host nights
like this so Dennis thank you so much
for your time thank you all for being
with us here tonight and please join us
for the reception across the way thank
you god bless
[Applause]